Ch 7 review (#487)
worldbank/dime-data-handbook: chapters/7-publication.tex

%------------------------------------------------

\begin{fullwidth}

> Publication typically involves many iterations of manuscript,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publication typically involves many iterations of preparing manuscript,
```
I might be wrong, but I feel like this sentence is missing a word.

This is not possible by default in Microsoft Word.
There, you have to copy and paste each object
whenever tables, graphs, or other inputs are updated.
As time goes on, it becomes increasingly likely
that a mistake will be made or something will be missed.
In {\LaTeX}, instead of writing in a
``what-you-see-is-what-you-get'' mode as you do in Word,
you write plain text in a \texttt{.tex} file,
interlaced with coded instructions formatting the document and linking to exhibits (similar to HTML).
{\LaTeX} manages tables and figures dynamically
and includes commands for simple markup
like font styles, paragraph formatting, section headers and the like.
It includes special controls for
footnotes and endnotes, mathematical notation, and bibliography preparation.
It also allows publishers to apply global styles and templates to already-written material,
reformatting entire documents in house styles with only a few keystrokes.

% keeping it simple
To create a {\LaTeX} manuscript,
you will typically start from a new top-level directory for each final output,
such as a paper or report.
Many projects go so far as to create the main paper

> and any appendix text as separate projects.

Reviewer: I think cut or elaborate. As is, this is confusing to someone new to latex. If we want to keep we should explain or give examples to how that is done.

For a single research output, we recommend putting the manuscript files
(such as \texttt{main.tex} and \texttt{bibliography.bib})
in the top-level folder,
and then have subfolders for figures, tables, and other inputs.

> Your analytical scripts should be set up such that it is easy to output files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your analysis scripts should be set up such that it is easy to output files
```

offer the most flexibility to work with {\LaTeX} in teams.

% cloud-based implementations are a good place to start
Although ultimately worth it, setting up {\LaTeX} is not always simple,
particularly if you are new to working with plain text code and file management.
This is because {\LaTeX} requires that all formatting be done in its special code language,

> and it is not particularly informative when you do something wrong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and it is always informative when you do something wrong.
```
this is a less negative way to say the same thing

This can be off-putting very quickly for people
who simply want to get to writing, 
and staff not used to programming may not easily acquire the necessary knowledge.

Cloud-based implementations of {\LaTeX} can make it easier for your team to use
{\LaTeX} without all members having to invest in new skills, 

> and can be particularly useful for first forays into {\LaTeX} writing. 

Reviewer: `foray` - this is easy to get from context, but can we simplify language?

They vary dramatically in their ability to integrate
with file systems where you store your code and outputs,
and so you will need to practice an integrated workflow depending what is available to you.
Some teams adopt cloud-based tools as a permanent solution,

> though others shift to integrated editing and compiling tools such as {\LaTeX} and Atom. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
though our recommendation is to eventually shift to 
local editing and compiling using tools such as TexStudio and code editors like Atom. 
```
Some reasons for these edits:
1. Make our recommendation to be to eventually no use cloud based latex setups
2. LaTeX is not a tool. 
3. And I think the alternative to "cloud-based" is not "integrated" but local.
4. I think TexStudio should be mentioned, and Atom as an example of code editors.

Reviewer 2: Done in ab95abe3993028c53482b897e795d04407f49531

%----------------------------------------------------

\section{Preparing and publishing data}

% what are reproducibility packages and what they must contain
While we have focused so far on written materials,
you must also consider how you will publish
the data used in your research.
The open science community at large sees data publication
both as a citable output and as a necessary transparency measure.
Fortunately, it is a conceptually simple task to produce
and catalog the required materials.
You should be prepared to catalog two separate collections.
First, you should catalog the unaltered (de-identified) data
with all variables corresponding directly
to fields in the original dataset or data collection instrument
(this may not be necessary if you are working with secondary data that is published elsewhere in this format).
If you follow the steps outlined in Chapter 5,
when you get to the publication stage you will have
a cleaned data set and supporting documentation ready.
Second, you should separately catalog 

> the analytical dataset used for the output you are publishing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the analysis dataset used for the output you are publishing.
```

such as a computational reproducibility check required for publication,
if done under careful data security protocols and approved by an IRB.

\subsection{Publishing raw and constructed datasets}

% options for when the data cannot be published
Publicly documenting all original data acquired as part of a research project
is an important contribution in its own right.
Cataloging and/or archiving original datasets
is a significant contribution in addition to any publication of analysis results.\sidenote{
	\url{https://www.povertyactionlab.org/sites/default/files/resources/J-PAL-guide-to-publishing-research-data.pdf}}
Publicly releasing data allows other researchers
to validate the mechanical construction of your results,
investigate what other results might be obtained from the same population,
and test alternative approaches or answer other questions.
This fosters collaboration and may enable researchers to explore variables and
questions that you do not have time to focus on otherwise.

% platforms for publishing data
The first step toward data publication is choosing the platform where you will publish your data.
A variety of options exist; 

> it is important to choose one that allows you to obtain a digital object identifier (DOI)

Reviewer: Add definition of DOI. This is the first time we mention it. What is different from this and a URL?

Author: add sidenote @bbdaniels

Reviewer: @bbdaniels

Reviewer 2: Done in f6eff4990e615c745f54a1e1ae6b42ff1186ec85

Reviewer 2: and d8ffae355a31439c96c91142ff7f0a69e49e500d

The materials for these practices are publicly available,
so you can use them to check the reproducibility of your own work.
This reproducibility check is initiated by submitting the Reproducibility Package Checklist.\sidenote{
	\url{https://github.com/worldbank/dime-standards/blob/master/dime-research-standards/checklists/reproducibility-package-checklist.pdf}}
DIME projects are required to organize code
with a master script, to facilitate handovers across team members 
and make the computational reproducibility check a one-click exercise.
Compliance with these and other coding standards at DIME is monitored through
quarterly peer code review rounds, which allows research assistants to improve their code and documentation as it is written,
rather than revisiting it in a rush near publication time.
DIME projects are also expected to use Git and GitHub
to document project work and collaboration,
and to keep the master branch up-to-date as a working edition.\sidenote{
	\url{https://github.com/worldbank/dime-standards/tree/master/dime-research-standards/pillar-3-research-reproducibility}}

% ensuring code reproducibility
Before publicly releasing a reproducibility package,

> it is essential to make sure that the code executes perfectly on a fresh install of your chosen software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is essential to make sure that the code runs identically 
on your individual setup compared to 
a fresh installation of your software.

```
I do not think `perfectly` is the right word. This is the most explicit way to say what we mean

  \url{https://codeocean.com}}
offer to store both code and data in one repository,
and also provide an online workspace in which others can execute and modify your code
without having to download your tools and match your local environment. 
This is particularly useful over time, as packages and other underlying software may have changed since publication.
In a similar spirit, attempts to create ``metadata archives''
that link all the different materials, releases, and publications

> relating to specific research projects or studies

Reviewer 3: This seems very broad, I'm not sure I understand what it is referring to.

Reviewer 3: @bbdaniels or @mariaruth to add an example

Reviewer 2: Removed in be8cabb68b76e0b552815f6f60f7a317c9b993fd
